# Challenge 1 - calculations (walkthrough)

This walkthrough goes through challenge 1 step-by-step.Before using the walkthrough, you should attempt each step yourself - treat this as a last resort, when you can't work it out yourself and you've tried more general searching for help.

The walkthrough is divided into several stages. We strongly recommend, when referring to the walkthrough, that you only do so one stage at a time, coming back when you get stuck, rather than just following along with it. You'll learn more from the experimentation, and while coding can be frustrating, that's when you make the most progress.

### Challenge requirements

Create a program that does the following:

1. Prompts the user to enter two numbers
2. Stores each number in a variable
3. Outputs the two numbers added together
4. Outputs the second number subtracted from the first
5. Outputs the two numbers multiplied together
6. Outputs the first number divided by the second

### Walkthrough

### Stage 1 - getting input

You can prompt the user to enter a number by using the `input` function.

```
num1 = input()
```

This will pause the program until the user presses the `return` key. Anything the user types before that will then be stored in the variable `num1`.

However, the above line of code does not tell the user what they are expected to enter. You can tell the user this in one of two ways:

1. Put a `print` command before the `input`
2. Pass a string as a parameter to the `input` function, which will then be displayed to the user as a prompt.

It's neater to use the second way, so that's what we'll do.

```
num1 = input("Enter a whole number: ")
num2 = input("Enter another whole number: ")
```

### Stage 2 - adding the numbers

Adding the numbers together is a simple command, just using the `+` operator - `num1 + num2`.

To display the result, we can use `print`: `print(num1+num2)`.

If you run that code though, you won't get the correct answer; you'll get the two numbers next to each other, not the two numbers added together. If the two numbers were 1 and 3, you would get the answer `13`, rather than `4`.

This is because `input` returns a string value - you need to use the `int` command to turn the string values into numbers.

You can add the `int` commands around the `input` instruction to immediately convert `input`'s result.

```
num1 = int(input("Enter a number: "))
```

You will need to do that for both variable assignments. Then you can simply write `print(num1 + num2)` and you will get the correct result.

### Stage 3 - performing the other Calculations

To complete this stage, you simply need to repeat the previous print line, but with different calculations. Remember the mathematical operators: `+`,`-`,`*`,`/`.

```
print(num1 - num2)
print(num1 * num2)
print(num2 / num1)
```

### Complete program

Below, you can find the complete code for a working solution. It is okay if your code does not look exactly like this, as long as it works; there are always several ways to solve the same programming problem.

```
num1 = int(input("Enter a whole number: "))
num2 = int(input("Enter a second whole number: "))
print(num1 + num2)
print(num1 - num2)
print(num1 * num2)
print(num2 / num1)
```
