# Challenge 2 - indices (walkthrough)

This walkthrough goes through challenge 2 step-by-step. Before using the walkthrough, you should attempt each step yourself - treat this as a last resort, when you can't work it out yourself and you've tried more general searching for help.

The walkthrough is divided into several stages. We strongly recommend, when referring to the walkthrough, that you only do so one stage at a time, coming back when you get stuck, rather than just following along with it. You'll learn more from the experimentation, and while coding can be frustrating, that's when you make the most progress.

### Challenge requirements

Create a program that does the following:

1. Prompts the user to enter three strings
2. Stores the results in variables
3. Creates a list containing the lengths of each string
4. Stores the list in a variable
5. Outputs the list
6. For each string, outputs
    * the length (from the stored list)
    * the first three letters
    * the last three letters

### Walkthrough

### Stage 1 - getting input

Use `input` with a prompt as a parameter to get user input.

```
string1 = input("Enter a string: ")
string2 = input("Enter a string: ")
string3 = input("Enter a string: ")
```

### Stage 2 - creating a list

Create a list using square brackets. Use `len` to get the length of each string and place them in the list.

```
list1 = [len(string1),len(string2),len(string3)]
```

Display the list using `print`.

```
print(list1)
```

### Stage 3 - accessing indices

To print the first string's length from the list, you need to use an index. As lists are zero-indexed - starting counting from 0 - the first string's length is stored at index 0.

```
print(list1[0])
```

To print the first and last 3 letters, you need to use a more complicated index. `[:3]` is the index for the first three characters - starting at the beginning, and stopping before index 3. This gives you characters 0,1 and 2 from the string - the first three.

```
print(string1[:3])
```

To print the last 3, you need a similar range: `[-3:]`. The colon in the middle shows that it is a range index. As there is nothing after the colon, the range goes until the end of the string. The -3 is a "negative index" - unlike normal indices, which count from the first character to the last, starting at zero, a negative index starts from the last character as -1, and counts backwards. -3 is the third character from the end.

```
print(string1[-3:])
```

Repeat the above steps - paying close attention to the indices - for the other two strings.

### Complete program

Below, you can find the complete code for a working solution. It is okay if your code does not look exactly like this, as long as it works; there are always several ways to solve the same programming problem.

```
string1 = input("Enter a string: ")
string2 = input("Enter a string: ")
string3 = input("Enter a string: ")

list1 = [len(string1),len(string2),len(string3)]
print(list1)

print(list1[0])
print(string1[:3])
print(string1[-3:])

print(list1[1])
print(string2[:3])
print(string2[-3:])

print(list1[2])
print(string3[:3])
print(string3[-3:])
```
