# Challenge 3 - countdown (walkthrough)

This walkthrough goes through challenge 3 step-by-step. Before using the walkthrough, you should attempt each step yourself - treat this as a last resort, when you can't work it out yourself and you've tried more general searching for help.

The walkthrough is divided into several stages. We strongly recommend, when referring to the walkthrough, that you only do so one stage at a time, coming back when you get stuck, rather than just following along with it. You'll learn more from the experimentation, and while coding can be frustrating, that's when you make the most progress.
### Challenge requirements

Create a program that does the following:

1. Prints out "Rocket test: " and the current date and time
2. Prompts the user to enter a positive number
3. Counts down from the entered number to zero, outputting each number
4. Outputs "Blast Off!"
5. Outputs "Test completed: " and the current date and time

### Walkthrough

### Stage 1 - getting the time

The easiest way to get an accurate date and time is with Python's `datetime` module.

`from datetime import datetime`

We can use the `from` syntax here because we only want a small part of the `datetime` module.

Display the time using a combination of `print` and `datetime.now()`:

`print("Rocket test:", datetime.now())`

### Stage 2 - getting user input

Prompt the user with `input` and store the result in a variable.

`num = input("Enter a positive number: ")`

As we want to use the input as a number, instead of a string, we should use `int` to convert the input.

`num = int(input("Enter a positive number: "))`

### Stage 3 - Creating the loop

We know that we want to loop a certain number of times - from the input number to zero. Because we know that a specific number of loops is required, we should use a for loop.

Previously, we've only used for loops for counting up, but here we need to count down. This could be solved with an extra variable that counts down while the for loop's standard count goes up. However, there is an easier way.

The below loop counts backwards from a given number - `num`.

`for i in range(num, -1, -1):`

It's important to be aware of how the arguments & parameters work here. The first parameter (num) is the start number, and the second (in this case, -1), is the end number. That's standard. The third argument is for the optional `step` parameter. If you omit this parameter in a `range`, then the `step` defaults to one - the `i` variable increases by one every loop. However, you can use another value, such as 2, or -1, to change how the count works.

```
for i in range(num, -1, -1):
  print(i)
```

In the above code, the loop runs as many times as it takes for the `i` variable to reach 0, printing out `i` each time.

### Stage 4 - final touches

The complex bit of the program has been completed. Now we just need two print statements outside the loop to finish it off.

```
print("Blast off!")

print("Test completed:", datetime.now())
```

### Complete program

Below, you can find the complete code for a working solution. It is okay if your code does not look exactly like this, as long as it works; there are always several ways to solve the same programming problem.

```
from datetime import datetime

print("Rocket test:", datetime.now())

num = int(input("Enter a positive number: "))

for i in range(num, -1, -1):
  print(i)

print("Blast off!")

print("Test completed:", datetime.now())
```
