# Challenge 4 - conversation (walkthrough)

This walkthrough goes through challenge 4 step-by-step. Before using the walkthrough, you should attempt each step yourself - treat this as a last resort, when you can't work it out yourself and you've tried more general searching for help.

The walkthrough is divided into several stages. We strongly recommend, when referring to the walkthrough, that you only do so one stage at a time, coming back when you get stuck, rather than just following along with it. You'll learn more from the experimentation, and while coding can be frustrating, that's when you make the most progress.

### Challenge requirements

Create a program that does the following:

1. Has a conversation with the user
2. Stores information about the user - name, age, favourite colour, etc.
3. Uses the information to calculate more facts about the user - calculate birth year from age, for example
4. Responds to certain user input in different ways, such as agreeing that a specific colour is the best, but disliking others
5. Tells the user everything it has learnt throughout the conversation

Build out the program as much as you wish, creating a conversation with multiple paths and outputs.

### Walkthrough

This challenge is quite open-ended, so this walkthrough will not cover an exhaustive solution. Instead, it will explain the key steps towards programming a very simple conversational bot.

As always, there is a complete example program at the end of this document.

### Stage 1 - getting information from the user.

To get information from the user, use `input`. If you want the information in a numeric form, use `int` to convert the input.

```
name = input("What is your name? ")
age = int(input("How old are you? "))
```

Note the use of prompts, and the space after them - spaces aren't required here, but they make the program look neater.

### Stage 2 - concatenating and printing

Some of the conversation can be done with pre-written, hard-coded strings. However, that doesn't work so well when we want the bot to respond intelligently and show that it is listening. To do that, we need the bot to use some of the information it has been given in its answers.

We can create new strings by adding two strings together with the `+` operator. If the variable `name` has the value ` York`, then `"New" + name` results in the string "New York". Adding strings together like this is called "concatenation".

If we use concatenation, then it's important to remember to put spaces in between words - concatentation combines the strings exactly as they are.

We can also take advantage of `print`'s more complex behaviour. Instead of passing a single string as an argument to `print`, you can add several strings, separated with commas. Python will insert a space between each string.

`print("Hello,","World!")` displays "Hello, World!".

If the variable `age` is assigned the value 37, then `print("I'm glad I'm not", age, "years old.")` outputs "I'm glad I'm not 37 years old."

### Stage 3 - branching the conversation

To make the conversation change based on user input, we can use IF statements.

```
if name == "Dan":
  print("What a great name!")
else:
  print("I used to know a", name + ".", "I didn't like them.")
```

In the above code, the variable `name` is compared to the string "Dan"; if the two are equal, then one print statement runs. If the two are not, then another string is printed.

We can nest IF statements inside IF statements as much as we want, although the program will start to get very complicated quickly. Even using one IF statement on its own allows for branching code and the appearance of a real conversation.

Remember that you can use "elif" to add even more options to an IF statement, and thus even more branches.

### Stage 4 - manipulating input

We can make a bot that does more than just parrot information - it can also work out some things itself. If we gather the user's age as an integer, for example, we can then manipulate that value to work out all sorts of things.

The code below shows a simple example - working out the user's probable birth year based on their age.

```
from datetime import datetime
year = datetime.now().year  - age
print("Based on your age, I think you were probably born in", str(year) + ".")
```

We need to import the datetime module to work out the current year. `datetime.now()` gets the current date and time, and then we can access the year with `.year`. Next, we simply subtract the user's age from the year, and display that result.

Note the use of `str` to convert the new number into a string, so that it can be concatenated with the correct punctuation.


### Complete program

Below, you can find the complete code for a working solution. It is okay if your code does not look exactly like this, as long as it works; there are always several ways to solve the same programming problem.

```
from datetime import datetime

print("Hello, my name is Bot!")
print("I want to know all about you!")
name = input("What's your name? ")
if name == "Dan":
  print("What a great name!")
else:
  print("I used to know a", name + ".", "I didn't like them.")
age = int(input("How old are you? "))
print("That's interesting.")
print("I'm", age + 20, "which makes me much wiser than you.")
year = datetime.now().year - age
print("Based on your age, I think you were probably born in", str(year) + ".")
colour = input("What's your favourite colour? ")
if colour != "purple":
  print("Wow. I guess one thing I've learnt is that you have no taste.")
else:
  print("Good choice!")
print("Anyway, good talk.")
print("I've learnt everything about you.")
print("Your name is", name + ".", "You are", age, "years old and your favourite colour is", colour + ".")
print("Bye! I'm going to go find someone else to talk to.")
```
