# Challenge 5 - turtles (walkthrough)

This walkthrough goes through challenge 5 step-by-step. Before using the walkthrough, you should attempt each step yourself - treat this as a last resort, when you can't work it out yourself and you've tried more general searching for help.

The walkthrough is divided into several stages. We strongly recommend, when referring to the walkthrough, that you only do so a stage at a time, coming back when you get stuck, rather than just following along with it. You'll learn more from the experimentation, and while coding can be frustrating, that's when you make the most progress.

### Challenge requirements

1. In no more than 3 lines of code, write instructions for a turtle to draw a triangle
2. Use a turtle to draw a square inside a triangle inside a circle. No shape should touch any other
3. Write a function that tells a turtle to draw a square of a user-inputted size
4. Write a function that tells a turtle to draw a shape with a given number of sides

### Walkthrough

### Stage 1 - create a turtle

First, go to the [turtle-enabled Trinket](https://trinket.io/turtle) and remove the starter code.

Begin with `from turtle import Turtle` to gain access to the turtle module's functionality.

Create a turtle with `belinda = Turtle()`. You can call your turtle any valid variable name you wish, but for the purposes of this walkthrough and examples, `belinda` will be used throughout.

### Stage 2 - draw a triangle

For simplicity's sake, we're going to make an equilateral triangle - it's got three sides of equal length, and three equal angles. We can simply repeat the same instructions three times:

```
belinda.forward(50)
belinda.right(120)
belinda.forward(50)
belinda.right(120)
belinda.forward(50)
belinda.right(120)
```

Note the angle of 120 - each angle inside an equilateral triangle is 60, but the turtle has to turn the external angle of 120 (180-60).

The above code draws a triangle, but takes six lines rather than the required 3. We can combine the triangle instructions with a FOR loop, to reduce the lines we have to write.

```
for i in range(3):
  belinda.forward(50)
  belinda.left(120)
```

The above code is basically identical to our first example - it repeats the instructions three times. The important difference here is that the computer is doing the work, rather than us having to type it all out.

### Stage 3 - shapes inside shapes

Once you've worked out a triangle, it's not so hard to do a square - just a different number of sides and angles.

```
for i in range(4):
  belinda.forward(50)
  belinda.right(90)
```

The tricky part of this challenge is making sure the shapes don't overlap. To do that, you need the `penup` and `pendown` commands.

`belinda.penup()` stops the turtle drawing, so you can position it without creating messy lines.

The next step is to move the turtle to where we want to draw the triangle - if we stay in the same starting place, then the shapes overlap.

Assuming you use the same or similar shapes sizes as this walkthrough, the following code will move to a safe starting position:

```
belinda.back(50)
belinda.right(90)
belinda.forward(55)
belinda.left(90)
```

All the above code does is move the turtle backwards and a little down, before turning it to face the original direction.

`belinda.pendown()` makes the turtle ready to draw again, and we can build the triangle. It's almost exactly the same as the code above, but it should be larger than the square.

```
for i in range(3):
  belinda.forward(150)
  belinda.left(120)
```

After the triangle, we have the same problem again - where do we position the turtle to start the circle? There's no one right answer for this, but here is a set of instructions that should work. Again, it's just moving the turtle to a new location.

```
belinda.penup()

belinda.back(40)
belinda.right(90)
belinda.back(50)

belinda.pendown()
```

The final step is to draw the circle. Initially, this might seem harder than a square or a triangle, but the principle is exactly the same. A circle doesn't have corners like a square or triangle, and we can, in something of an oversimplification, say that it has either only one side, or an infinite number of sides, each side being infinitesimally small. If a circle has only one side, then the turtle can't draw it, so we'll go with the infinite option.

We aren't aiming for atomic accuracy here, and we can make an almost-circle by giving it 360 sides - one for each degree inside a circle. Each side will have a length of 2, and will be turned one degree more than the previous side. This creates a circle large enough to hold the triangle.

```
for i in range(360):
  belinda.forward(2)
  belinda.left(1)
```

You might notice that the circle takes a lot time to draw; this is because the turtle only has to do 6 things to draw a triangle, but needs 720 actions to complete the circle. You can speed this up by adding `belinda.speed(0)` to your code early on - this sets the turtle to the fastest available speed.

### Stage 4 - square function

We create a function with the `def` keyword. It makes sense to call this function draw_square, as that's what it will do.

`def draw_square():`

Anything we then write indented under the `def`inition will run as part of the function. Just to start with, we can use our earlier square code:

```
def draw_square():
for i in range(4):
  belinda.forward(50)
  belinda.right(90)
```

This function will draw a square when called with `draw_square()`. However, the square will always be the same size. To improve the function we should create a parameter - `length` - so that we can specify the size of square when we run the function.

```
def draw_square(length):
for i in range(4):
  belinda.forward(length)
  belinda.right(90)
```

Now when we call the function, the size will depend on the length we specify. `draw_square(10)` will make a smaller square than `draw_square(1000)`.

The function still could do with some work - at the moment, it only works for a turtle called `belinda`. What if we wanted a different name, or to have more than one turtle draw a square? We should add `turtle` as a parameter, so that this function can be called to make any turtle draw squares.

```
def draw_square(turtle, length):
  for i in range(4):
    turtle.forward(length)
    turtle.right(90)
```

When we call this function, we now need two parameters - the length, and the name of the turtle we want to draw. Even though a turtle is a much more complicated object than the basic integer of length, it can still be passed as a parameter in exactly the same way.

### Stage 5 - shape function

The last section of this challenge is to write one more function. Luckily, this function is actually very similar to the previous square function. It just needs to be able to draw a shape with a given number of sides, instead of just a square.

`def draw_shape(turtle, sides, length):` sets up the parameters we will need. Then it's just a question of slotting them into the right places.

In the `draw_square` function, the FOR loop repeated 4 times - once for each side. For the triangle, it ran 3 times. To make a function that draws shapes of any size, just replace the number in the `range()` with the `sides` parameter.

```
def draw_shape(turtle, sides, length):
  for i in range(sides):
    turtle.forward(length)
    turtle.right(90)
```

The function isn't quite right - currently it just draws a square with extra sides, going over the same lines again as many times as it should have sides. We also need to change the angle away from 90.

There's an easy trick to this. The external angles of a polygon - any polygon - sum to 360. Dividing 360 by the number of sides gets you the angle size for a regular polygon with that many sides. 360 / 4 == 90, 360 / 3 == 120. We can simply use `360/sides' to get the correct angle.

```
def draw_shape(turtle, sides, length):
  for i in range(sides):
    turtle.forward(length)
    turtle.right(360/sides)
```

If you call the function as `draw_shape(belinda, 5, 50)`, you get a pentagon. If you call it with `draw_shape(belinda, 18, 50)`, you'll get an octakaidecagon.

### Complete program

Below, you can find the complete code for a working solution. It is okay if your code does not look exactly like this, as long as it works; there are always several ways to solve the same programming problem.

As this code does several different things, you probably want to run a section at a time, rather than the whole thing together.

```
# create a turtle
from turtle import Turtle

belinda = Turtle()

# set the speed to the highest setting
belinda.speed(0)

# draw a square
for i in range(4):
  belinda.forward(50)
  belinda.right(90)

# move the turtle
belinda.penup()

belinda.back(50)
belinda.right(90)
belinda.forward(55)
belinda.left(90)

belinda.pendown()

# draw a triangle
for i in range(3):
  belinda.forward(150)
  belinda.left(120)

# move the turtle
belinda.penup()

belinda.back(40)
belinda.right(90)
belinda.back(50)

belinda.pendown()

# draw a circle
for i in range(360):
  belinda.forward(2)
  belinda.left(1)

# square function

def draw_square(turtle, length):
  for i in range(4):
    turtle.forward(length)
    turtle.right(90)

# shape function
def draw_shape(turtle, sides, length):
  for i in range(sides):
    turtle.forward(length)
    turtle.right(360/sides)
```
